Runs: Rewrite Runs section (#2011)
wandb/docs: models/runs/grouping.mdx

Reviewer: Stopped review after this file, for now.

---
description: Organize your runs into groups and other properties.
title: Organize runs
---

> Organize your runs into *groups*. A group is a collection of runs that share a common purpose, such as training runs for a specific model or evaluation runs for a specific dataset.

Reviewer: What about something like "This page shows how to organize your runs using groups or using properties like [Job types](/models/runs/grouping#organize-runs-by-job-type) to indicate the function of a run, such as `preprocessing`, `training`, or `evaluation`."

You can also organize runs by other properties such as *job type*. [Job types](/models/runs/grouping#organize-runs-by-job-type) indicate the function of a run, such as `preprocessing`, `training`, or `evaluation`.

{/* 
### Define groups using environment variables

Use `WANDB_RUN_GROUP` to specify a group for your runs as an environment variable. For more on this, check our docs for [Environment Variables](/models/track/environment-variables/). **Group** should be unique within your project and shared by all runs in the group. You can use `wandb.util.generate_id()` to generate a unique 8 character string to use in all your processes— for example, `os.environ["WANDB_RUN_GROUP"] = "experiment-" + wandb.util.generate_id()` */}

## Organize runs into groups

You can add runs to a group programmatically using the W&B Python SDK or interactively in the W&B App.

<Note>
W&B stores group names as a run [`wandb.Run.group`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#property-run-group) property.
</Note>

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Python SDK">

> Programmatically add one or more runs to a group with the W&B Python SDK. Pass the name of your group as an argument to the `group` parameter when you initialize a run with `wandb.init(group="")`. The name you provide is used to organize and filter runs in the W&B App.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Programmatically add one or more runs to a group with the W&B Python SDK. Pass the name of your group as an argument to the `group` parameter when you initialize a run with `wandb.init(group="")`.  You can use group names to organize and filter runs in the W&B App.
```

The following example creates three groups named `A`, `B`, and `C`. Each group contains three runs.

```python
import wandb

entity = "<entity>"
project = "<project>"

for group in ["A", "B", "C"]:
    for i in range(3):
        with wandb.init(entity=entity, project=project, group=group, name=f"{group}_run_{i}") as run:
            # Simulate some training
            for step in range(100):
                run.log({
                    "acc": 0.5 + (step / 100) * 0.3 + (i * 0.05),
                    "loss": 1.0 - (step / 100) * 0.5
                })
```

> Within the project's workspace, you can view runs organized by group. The following image shows the runs table grouped by the group name. Three groups named `A`, `B`, and `C` appear in the runs table, each containing three runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the project's workspace, you can view runs organized by group. The following image illustrates organizing the runs table by group name. Three groups named `A`, `B`, and `C` appear in the runs table, each containing three runs.
```

<Frame>
    <img src="/images/runs/group_name_3_groups.png" alt="Runs table grouped by group name"  />
</Frame>
</Tab>
<Tab title="W&B App">

1. Navigate to your W&B project.
2. Select the **Runs** tab from the project sidebar.
3. Above the list of runs, click the **Group** button.
4. Click the checkbox next to one or more runs you want to group.
5. Select **Move to group**.

> 6. In the modal, select an existing group or create a new group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. In the drawer, select an existing group or create a new group.
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

### View groups

View runs organized by group in the W&B App:

1. In your project sidebar, select the **Runs** tab.
2. Above the list of runs, click the **Group** button.

> 3. From the dropdown, select either **Group**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. From the dropdown, select a **Group**.
```

### Move runs between groups

> Move runs in one group to another group:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Move runs from one group to another:
```

1. Navigate to your W&B project.
1. Select the **Runs** tab from the project sidebar.
1. Select one or more runs by clicking their checkboxes.
1. Above the table, click **Move to group**.
1. Within the modal, select the target group or create a new group.
1. Click **Move**.

> ### Remove a group

Reviewer: This title could use some disambiguation from the one on line 91. This is something like "Remove runs from a group" or "Stop grouping by a group"?

1. Navigate to your W&B project.
1. Select the **Runs** tab from the project sidebar.
1. Above the list of runs, click the **Group** button.
1. From the dropdown, select the **X** next to the name of the group you want to remove.

### Delete a group
To delete a group, remove all runs from it. This automatically deletes the group.

## Organize runs by job type

Organize runs by their *job type*. A job type indicates the function of a run, such as `preprocessing`, `training`, or `evaluation`. 

> <Note>

Reviewer: Not sure this needs to be a note or if the sentence is necessary at all. It seems to be covered in line 102.

> W&B stores job types as a run [`wandb.Run.job_type`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#property-run-job-type) property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specify the job type in the run's [`wandb.Run.job_type`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#property-run-job-type) property.
```

</Note>

Add a job type to a run by passing the `job_type` parameter to `wandb.init(job_type="")`. For example, the following code snippet creates runs with job types of either `training` or `evaluation`:

```python
import wandb

entity = "<entity>"
project = "<project>"

for job_type in ["training", "evaluation"]:
    for i in range(2):
        with wandb.init(entity=entity, project=project, job_type=job_type, name=f"{job_type}_run_{i}") as run:
            # Simulate some process
            for step in range(50):
                run.log({
                    "metric1": 0.2 + (step / 50) * 0.4 + (i * 0.03),
                    "metric2": 0.8 - (step / 50) * 0.3
                })

```

> The following image shows runs organized by the job type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following image shows runs organized by job type:
```

<Frame>
    <img src="/images/runs/group_job_type.png" alt="Ungrouped runs table"  />
</Frame>

### View runs organized by job type

View runs organized by group in the W&B App:

1. In your project sidebar, select the **Runs** tab.
2. Above the list of runs, click the **Group** button.

> 3. From the dropdown, select either **Job Type**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. From the dropdown, select **Job Type**.
```
